World Bank Document


Pu
bl
ic
 
D
i
s
c
l
o
s
u
r
e
 
A
u
t
h
o
r
i
z
e
d
 

Pu
bl
ic
 
D
i
s
c
l
o
s
u
r
e
 
A
u
t
h
o
r
i
z
e
d
 

+ 

OFFICIAL 
DOCUMENTS 

  

  

CREDIT NUMBER 5925 BF 

Financing Agreement 

(Second Regional Trade Facilitation and Competitiveness 
Development Policy Financing) 

between 

BURKINA FASO 

and . 

INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 

Dated Decens wou LS, 2016 

  
 



CREDIT NUMBER 5925-BF 

FINANCING AGREEMENT 

Datermbex AS . 
AGREEMENT dated , 2016, entered inte between BURKINA 

FASO (“Recipient”) and the INFERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Joint Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, infer alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient and the Partner 
(Republic of Céte d’[voire} have already taken under the Joint Program and which are 
described in Section I of Schedule | to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s and the 
Partner’s respective maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework in their 

respective countries. The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 

ARTICLE 1 — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 

1.0. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute 

an integral part of this Agreement. 

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix 
to this Agreement. 

1.03. The Recipient acknowledges and agrees that this Financing is being provided as 
part of a regional Joint Program to be implemented in coordination with 
complementary financing from the Association to the Partner under the Joint Letter 

of Development Policy. 

ARTICLE If -—— FINANCING 

2.01. The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in the amount of forty-five million 
seven hundred thousand Euro (EUR 45,700,000) (variously, “Credit” and 

“Financing”). 

The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Joint 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule | to this Agreement. 

Ww
 So 

a
 

2.03. The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 af 1%) per 
annum. 

2.04. The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shail be equal to the greater of: (a) the sum of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of



2.05. 

2.06. 

2.07, 

2.08. 

3.01. 

4.01, 

-2- 

1%) per annum plus the Basis Adjustment to the Service Charge; and (b) three- 
fourths of one percent (3/4 of t%) per annum. 

The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in cach year. 

The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

The Payment Currency is Euro. 

Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section IF of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Recipient shall 
promptly furnish to the Association such information relating to the provisions of 

this Article II as the Association may, from time to time, reasonably request. 

ARTICLE IEE — JOINT PROGRAM 

The Recipient declares its commitment to the Joint Program and the 
implementation of its part of the Joint Program. To this end, and further to Section 
4.07 of the General Conditions (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
Section 11 of the Appendix to this Agreement and relating to Project Monitoring 
and Evaluation): 

{a) the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out its part of the Joint 
Program; 

{b) prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report an the progress achieved 
in carrying out its part of the Joint Program, in such detail as the 

_ Association sha]! reasonably request; and 

(c} without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Joint Program or any action taken under the Joint Program including 
any action specified in Section I of Schedule | to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE [V — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 

The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 

(a) a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Joint 
Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried out; and/or



5.01. 

3.02, 

3.03. 

-3- 

(b) the Association has suspended in whole or in part the right of the Partner 
to make withdrawals under the Partner Financing Agreement. 

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 

(a) the Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by both the 
Recipient and the Partner in carrying out the Joint Program and with the 
adequacy of the Recipient’s and Partner’s respective macroeconomic 
policy frameworks; and 

(b) the Partner Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Partner to 
make withdrawals under it, other than effectiveness of this Agrecment, 

have been fulfilled. 

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement, 

For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 

payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement,



6.01. 

6.02. 

6.03. 

-4- 

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

The Recipient’s Representative is its minister at the time responsible for economy, 
finance and development. 

The Recipient’s Address is: 

Minister of Economy, Finance and Development 
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Development 
03 BP 7050 

Quagadougou 03 
Burkina Faso 

Facsimile: 

226-25-31-27-15 

The Association’s Address is: 

International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 

Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 

Facsimile: 

1-202-477-6391



-5- 

AGREED at Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, as of the day and year first above 
written. 

BURKINA FASO 

  

  

Authorized Representative 

Name: Hadigalon Ronine (outtbaby |S uw 

Title: 5 mister a Economy Finances and, 

a) eo Lopecent 

INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 

curl 
Authorized Representative 

Name: ( GS er. AN ¥. K a ale. 

Title: { a LY los Mlanagen fo Punthina Yass 

S



Section T. 

A. 

-6- 

SCHEDULE 1 

Joint Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 

Actions Under the Joint Program 

Actions Taken Under the Joint Program 

The actions taken by the Recipient under the Jaint Program include the foilowing: 

1. Adoption by the Recipient of regulations (decrees and/or ministerial 

orders) strengthening the training system for road transport operators. 

For purposes of applying WAEMU Regulation 14, and pursuant to the 

September 23 Declaration: 

(a) Adoption by the Recipient of measures for the acquisition and 
refurbishment of truck weighing equipment, and 

() Notification of increased sanctions for noncompliant operators. 

For increasing efficiency of road transport operations, including relations 

between trucking companies and shippers: 

(a) Introduction by the Recipient of a virtual freight exchange that 

makes available information on incoming freight; 

(b) Mutua! recognition of inter-State consignment notes by the 
Recipient and the Pariner; and 

{c) Signature by the Recipient and the Partner of a revised bilateral 
road transport agreement (profocofe d'accora) dated May 12, 
2016. 

For increasing efficiency of truck fleets: 

(a) Adoption by the Recipient of measures to support fleet renewal 
for compliant road transporters through provisions to lower the 
cost of vehicles (notably tax and customs duty exemptions); and 

{b) Strengthening by the Recipient of the technical inspection of 
vehicles through the issuance of regulations, procedures or 
strategies. 

Development and launch by the Recipient of the clectronic-based trade 
single window system.



-7- 

6. Strengthening by the Recipient’s customs administration of the risk 
management system through: (i) introduction of automated selectivity for 
customs controls; and {ii) modernization of post-clearance audits 
procedures. 

7. Improvement of the Recipient’s customs administration by strengthening: 
(i) its internal procedures for customs controls; and (if) the oversight of 
licensed customs brokers. 

8. Signing ofan agreement (protocole d’accord) dated April 28, 2016 by the 
Recipient’s and the Partner’s customs administrations on a pilot 
interconnection system allowing a single transit declaration at the point of 
departure for transit between the two countries, 

Section II, Availability of Financing Procceds 

A. General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 

Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a Single 
Withdrawal Tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the 

Financing. The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in 
the table below: , 

  

  

  

Amouat of the Financing Allocated 
Allocations (expressed in Euro) 

C1} Single Withdrawal Tranche 45,700,000 

TOTAL AMOUNT 45,700,000       
  

Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions 

No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the 
Association is satisfied with: (a) the Joint Program being carried out by the 
Recipient and the Partner; and (b) the adequacy of the Recipient’s and the Partner’s 
respective macroeconomic policy frameworks.



«8- 

Deposits of Financing Amounts. Except as the Association may otherwise agree: 

1, all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to 
the Association; and 

2. the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 

Association. 

Excluded Expenditures, The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 

cancelled. 

Closing Date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2017.



-9- 

SCHEDULE 2 

Repayment Schedule 

  
Principal Amount of the Credit 

repayable 
Date Payment Due (expressed as a percentage)* 

  

On each April 15 and October 15, commencing 1.56250% 
April 15, 2023 to and including October 15, 2054         

* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of the 
General Conditions.



-~10- 

APPENDIX 

Section I. Definitions 

we
 

“Basis Adjustment to the Service Charge” means the Association’s standard basis 

adjustment to the Service Charge for credits in the currency of denomination of the 
Credit, in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, on the date on which the 

Credit is approved by the Executive Directors of the Association, and expressed 
either as @ positive or negative percentage per annum. 

“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 

{a) for goods or services supplied under a contract which aay national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
Joan; 

(b) for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 

the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No, 34/Rev.3 (1986) 
(the SETC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions 

to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

Group Sub-group Description of Item 
112 Alcoholic beverages 

121 Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 

122 Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 

525 Radioactive and associated materials 
667 Pearls, precious and semiprecious 

stones, unworked or worked 

718 718.7 Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 

fuel elements (cartridges), non- 
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 

  

728 728.43 Tobacco processing machinery 
  

897 897.3 Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 

971 Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
          ores and concentrates} 
 



-1l1- 

(c) for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 

(d)} for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the faws of the Recipient or international 
agrecments to which the Recipient is a party; 

(e) on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VIL of the Charter of the United 

Nations; and 

(fh with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient {or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association ta address such practices when they 
occur. 

“General Conditions” means the “International Development Assaciation General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 31, 2010, with the modifications set 
forth in Section II of this Appendix. 

“Joint Letter of Development Policy” means the letter dated November 7, 2016, 
from the Recipient together with the Partner to the Association, in joint support of 
the Joint Program under their respective financing agreements with the 
Association, declaring the Recipicnt’s and the Partner’s shared commitment to the 
execution of the Joint Program, and jointly requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Joint Program during its execution. 

“Joint Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the Joint Letter of Development Policy. 

“Partner” means Céte d'Ivoire, the other recipient of financing from the 
Association for the Joint Program. 

“Partner Financing Agreement” means the financing agreement entered into by the 
Partner with the Association for actions, objectives and policies related to the Joint 
Program, as such agreement may be amended from time to time, and including all 
appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental thereto.



10, 

li, 

-12- 

“September 23 Declaration” neans the Déc/aration de la Réunion des Ministres 
en Charge des Infrastructures et du Transport Roulier des Etats Membres de 
L'UEMOA et de la Guinée pour l'Evaluation de la Mise en Application du 
Réglement No 14/2005/CM/UEMOA du 16 décembre 2005 Relatif a 

l'Farmonisation des Normes et des Procédures du Contréle du Gabarit, du Poids, 
ef de la Charge a l'Essien des Véhicules Lowrds dans les Etats Membres de 
PUEMOA made on September 23, 2016 in Cotonou, Benin. 

“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section Il af Schedule | to this Agreement. 

“WAEMU” means the West African Economic and Monetary Union. 

“WAEMU Regulation 14° means the Réglement No 14/2005/CM/UEMOA du 16 

décembre 2005 Relatif 4 l'Harmonisation des Normes et des Procédures du 
Contrale du Gabarit, du Poids, et de la Charge a l’Essieu des Véhicules Lourds 

dans les Etats Membres de ’PUEMOA., 

Section L. Modifications to the Genera) Conditions 

The General Conditions are hereby modified as follows: 

1. The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 

Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 

Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted 
in their entirety, and the subsequent Sections in Article IT are renumbered 
accordingly. 

Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generatly) and 4.09 (Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 

Sections in Article I'V are renumbered accordingly. 

Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above 

and relating to Use af Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety. 

Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) 
is modified to read as follows:



-13- 

“Section 4.06. Plans: Documents; Records 

(c} The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 

until two years after the Closing Date, The Recipient shall enable the Association’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 

Paragraph (c) of Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) 
is modified ta read as follows: 

“Section 4.07, Program Monitoring and Evatuation 

“ (c) The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of its part of the Joint Program, the performance by the Recipient and 

the Association of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 

The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 

alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 

(a) The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows: 

“Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Joint Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 

(b) The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 

{c) The term “Project” is modified to read “Joint Pragram” and its definition 
is modified to read as follows: 

“Joint Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing 
Agreement in support of which the Financing is made.” All references to 
“Project” throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be 
references to “Joint Program.”