World Bank Document


Pu
bl

ic
 
D
i
s
c
l
o
s
u
r
e
 
A
u
t
h
o
r
i
z
e
d
 

Pu
bl

ic
 
D
i
s
c
l
o
s
u
r
e
 
A
u
t
h
o
r
i
z
e
d
 

OFFICIAL 

DOCUMENTS 

LOAN NUMBER 8913-DO 

Loan Agreement 

(Additional Financing for the Support to the National Education Pact Project) 

between 

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 

and 

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 

AND DEVELOPMENT 

 



LOAN AGREEMENT 

AGREEMENT dated as of the Signature Date between DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 

(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for the Original 

Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree 

as follows: 

ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) apply to and form 

part of this Agreement. 

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 

the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 

Agreement. 

ARTICLE Il — LOAN 

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower the amount of one hundred million Dollars, 

(USD100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 

Currency Conversion (which has been requested by the Borrower and accepted by the Bank 

in accordance with the pertinent provisions set forth in Article IV of the General 

Conditions) (“Loan”), to assist in the additional financing for the Support to the National 

Education Pact Project described in Schedule | to this Agreement (“Project”). 

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section III of 

Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

2.03. The Front-end Fee is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. 

2.04. The Commitment Charge is one quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum on the 

Unwithdrawn Loan Balance. 

2.05. The interest rate is the Reference Rate plus the Variable Spread or such rate as may apply 
following a Conversion (which has been requested by the Borrower and accepted by the 

Bank in accordance with the pertinent provisions set forth in Article IV of the General 

Conditions); subject to Section 3.02(e) of the General Conditions. 

    

      

2.06. |The Payment Dates are June 1 and December | in each year. 
¥, 

dule 3 to fi. 
Fora & “\; 

2.07. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with Sche 
Agreement. i> 3 

yy      



3.01. 

4.01. 

4.02. 

5.01. 

6.01. 

6.02. 

ARTICLE I — PROJECT 

The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the 

Borrower shall carry out the Project through MINERD, with the participation of IDEICE, 

INAIPI, INAFOCAM and ISFODOSU, in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 

the General Conditions and Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK 

The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the National 

Education Pact has been amended, suspended, abrogated, or waived so as to affect 

materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the execution of the Project. 

The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the event 

specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days 
after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 

ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 

The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and eighty (180) days after the 
Signature Date (unless the Bank, after consideration of the reasons for delay, establishes a 

later Effectiveness Deadline for the purposes of Section 9.04 of the General Conditions). 

ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 

The Borrower’s Representative who, inter alia, may agree to modification of the provisions 

of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower, through exchange of letters (unless otherwise 
determined by the Borrower and the Bank), is its Minister of Finance. 

For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Borrower’s address is: 

Ministerio de Hacienda de la Republica Dominicana 

Av. México 45, Gazcue 
Santo Domingo de Guzman, Distrito Nacional 

Republica Dominicana; and 

(b) the Borrower’s Electronic Address is: 

Facsimile: 

809-688-8838 

     eff 
Sf 

~ & 21 ff 
me 2S Fy 5 RE oO 
~~” Doming?: 
OE



6.03. For purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions: (a) the Bank’s address is: 

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 

1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 

United States of America; and 

(b) the Bank’s Electronic Address is: 

Telex: Facsimile: E-mail: 

248423(MCI) or 1-202-477-6391 tsayed@worldbank.org 

64145(MCI) 

AGREED as of the Signature Date. 

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 

  

  

  

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 

RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

» Mule duller 
Authorized Répresentative 

Name: ACESSANDRO LEG ROTTAGLIE 

Title: COUNTRY MawaaeR 

Date: Ao eee bor 2014 

  

  

 



SCHEDULE 1 

Project Description 

The Project consists entirely of the Original Project, which maintains as its objective to 

improve the Borrower’s capacity to: (i) recruit and train primary and secondary school teachers; 

(ii) assess student learning in primary and secondary education; (iii) evaluate the quality of service 

provided by Public Early Childhood Development Centers; and (iv) enhance the process for 
decentralizing public school management. 

The Project consists of the provision of financing of EEPs to support the implementation 
of the National Education Pact and includes all the parts previously set forth in the Original Loan 

Agreement, which are hereby amended to read as set forth in the following parts: 

Part 1. Improving Capacity to Recruit and Train Primary and Secondary School Teachers 

Carry out a comprehensive revision of MINERD’s primary and secondary school teacher 

recruitment and training activities based on professional standards for teachers set forth in the POM, 
with a focus on: 

(a) Pre-service training through, infer alia: (i) the revision of ISFODOSU teaching 

degree curricula and competence profiles; (ii) the creation of specialized degrees 

for secondary school teachers; (iii) the implementation of a quality assurance and 

monitoring system for ISFODOSU; (iv) the implementation of a scholarship 

program to attract high-performing secondary students to ISFODOSU pre-service 

degrees; (v) the implementation of a revised remedial program for admitted 
students with skill gaps; and (vi) the revision of the career structure and promotion 

schemes of ISFODOSU teachers. 

(b) Human resources management, including, inter alia: (i) the design and 
implementation of a competitive induction exam and selection process for public 

school teachers, administrators and staff; (ii) the launch of an online teacher 

recruitment system; and (iii) the launch of web-enabled management information 

systems. 

(c) The teaching career, through supporting, inter alia, the design, and adoption of: (i) 

guidelines for the teaching career; (ii) a revised teacher evaluation based on 

international best practices; and (iii) the implementation of key aspects of the 
teacher career, including, infer alia, a revised induction program for newly 

recruited teachers. 

(d) In-service training, through supporting, inter alia: (i) the development and piloting 
of in-service training programs for current teachers through INAFOCAM; (ii) the 
revision of guidelines and evaluation of existing in-service programs; (iii) 

institutional capacity strengthening for the INAFOCAM evaluation office and 

IDEICE; (iv) the incorporation of information and communication technglogy-into 

teacher training programs; (v) the use of data to revise and prioritize train DR. 
strategies; and (vi) an impact evaluation of in-service programs,” 

\ a Ns #o. 
£ 

4 1&4 
Pi 

  

-4- i\ 

  



Part 2. Improving Capacity to Assess Student Learning in Primary and Secondary Education 

Support the strengthening of student assessment system through: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

Development and implementation of a national strategy for pre-tertiary student 
assessments. 

Participation in and dissemination of international assessments. 

Technical improvement of national student assessments. 

Design and implementation of a system for dissemination of results and use of 

assessment data. 

Development and implementation of national assessments in selected pre-tertiary 

grades. 

Part 3. Improving Capacity to Evaluate the Quality of Service Provided by Public Early Childhood 
  

Development Centers 

Support the organizational design and _ institutional strengthening of INAIPI, 

through: 

(a) 

(b) 

Developing a strategic plan for INAIPI and quality standards systems for Public 
Early Childhood Development Centers and personnel. 

Development and implementation of an information and communications strategy 

to disseminate within the Public Early Childhood Development Centers standards 

of quality service delivery, public understanding of the QEC Program, and improve 
parenting practices. 

Part 4. Improving Capacity to Enhance the Process for Decentralizing Public School Management 

Support the decentralization of MINERD’s functions and resources through: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

Supporting the increase of established School Management Committees in public 

schools through Transfers to SMCs. 

Supporting the review of regulations and processes to: (i) increase efficiency in 

establishing SMCs; and (ii) streamline SMC account opening procedures. 

Implementation of a functional expenditure system for SMCs. 

   

    

=5= \ > 

ES Qf SAS, QE0 6S 

Se Deming” 
Sane



    

(f) 

(g) 

Supporting the recruitment, training, and evaluation of decentralized ministry staff 

including regional and district directors and school principals. 

Supporting decentralized ministry staff in the collection and use of data for 
planning and prioritization of interventions. 

  

 



SCHEDULE 2 

Project Execution 

Section I. Implementation Arrangements 

A. 

L. 

Institutional Arrangements. 

The Borrower shall vest the overall responsibility for the implementation of the Project in 

MINERD, and the responsibility for coordination, monitoring and evaluation in OCI. To 

this end, the Borrower, shall maintain during the implementation of the Project, OCI with 

powers, functions, capacity, staffing, terms of reference, and resources satisfactory to the 

Bank to fulfill its respective functions under the Project, as set forth in the Project 

Operations Manual. 

(a) The Borrower, through MINERD, shall operate and maintain, a Project Steering 

Committee with composition (consisting of, inter alia: (i) a representative of OCI; 

(ii) a representative of the MINERD’s Vice-Ministry of Planning; (iii) a 
representative of the MINERD’s Vice-Ministry of Technical and Pedagogical 

Services; and (iv) a representative of the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance), with 

functions and responsibilities, acceptable to the Bank. 

(b) The Steering Committee’s responsibilities shall include, inter alia: (i) providing 
strategic guidance to MINERD for overall Project implementation; (ii) regularly 

reviewing Project monitoring and evaluation data to determine progress and 

proposing adjustments to MINERD to ensure satisfactory achievement of the 
Project objective; (111) monitoring MINERD’s sufficient budgetary allocation for 
the carrying out the audit and verification obligations under the Project in a manner 

satisfactory to the Bank; (iv) overseeing the reporting, documentation and 

submission of DLI achievement, and the timely submission of withdrawal 

applications; and (v) overseeing the coordination of technical and decentralized 

units of MINERD and respective key stakeholders on key policy issues related to 
Project implementation. 

No later than three (3) months from the Effective Date, the Borrower shall cause its 
Ministry of Finance and MINERD to amend the inter-institutional agreement referred to 

under Section I.A.3 of the Original Loan Agreement, under terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Bank setting forth: (a) the obligation of the Borrower to allocate 

additional resources from the Borrower’s Budget to MINERD as required to enable 

MINERD to carry out the Project; and (b) the obligation of MINERD to maintain OCI 

under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, and allocate budget resources for the 
carrying out of the Borrower’s reporting obligations under this Agreement. 

Project Operations Manual. 

   Without limitation upon the provisions of Article V of the General Cofditions and.Se 1.A. of this Schedule, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, theBorreg 
-7-



Section II. 

A. 

MINERD, shall carry out the Project in accordance with the terms of the Project Operations 
Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

9) 

(g) 

(h) 

the detailed description of Project implementation activities, their 

sequencing, timetable, benchmarks and the institutional arrangements of 

the Project; 

the Project administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, financial 
(including cash flow aspects in relation thereto), procurement and 

disbursement procedures (including all pertinent standard documents and 

model contracts in relation thereto); 

the plan for the monitoring and supervision of the Project; 

arrangements for monitoring, evaluation, and reporting of Project 
implementation, including Verification Protocols to confirm DLI 

achievement; 

the roles and responsibilities of the entities involved in Project 

implementation; 

the indicators to evaluate the performance of the Project; 

the criteria for the preparation of Customized Statements of Expenditures 
Reports; and 

the SMCs Operations Manual. 

Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall 

not abrogate, amend, suspend, terminate, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the Project 

Operations Manual or any provision thereof. 

In the case of any conflict between the terms of the Project Operations Manual and those 

of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 

Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 

Project Reports. 

The Borrower, through MINERD, shall furnish to the Bank each Project Report not later 
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, covering the calendar 

semester. 
ee    



Section II. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds 

A. General. 

Without limitation upon the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and in 

accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter (as may be revised 
from time to time by the Bank by notice to the Borrower), the Borrower may withdraw the 

proceeds of the Loan providing additional financing to: (a) finance Eligible Expenditures 
under EEPs, which disbursement is triggered by the achievement of specific DLIs as set 

forth under Schedule 4 of this Agreement; and (b) pay the Front-end Fee; in the amount 

allocated and, if applicable, up to the percentage set forth against each Category of the 
following table, as such table may be modified, as many times it may be necessary, through 

the exchange of letters between the Borrower and the Bank, in line with the provisions of 
Section 6.01 of this Agreement, and without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.08 of 

the General Conditions: 

  

Category Amount of the Loan Percentage of Expenditures 

Allocated to be financed 

(expressed in USD) (inclusive of Taxes) 
  

(1) Payments for EEPs 99,750,00 100% up to the amount of the 

Loan allocated to each DLI, as 

set forth in Schedule 4 to this 

Agreement 
  

(2) Front-end Fee 250,000 Amount payable pursuant to 

Section 2.03 of _ this 
Agreement in accordance with 
Section 2.07 (b) of the General 
Conditions 

    TOTAL AMOUNT 100,000,000       
  

B. 

1. 

Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A above, no withdrawal shall be made: 

(a) for payments made prior to the Signature Date, except that withdrawals up to an 

aggregate amount not to exceed twenty million Dollars ($20,000,000) may be 
made for payments made prior to this date up to twelve (12) months prior to the 

Signature Date; or 

(b) for any DLI, until and unless the Borrower has furnished evidence satisfactory to 
the Bank that said DLI has been achieved. 

With respect to withdrawals under Category (1), and as provided under paragraph B.1(b) 
of this Section, payments shall be made in November of, or a soon as practi fter 

in, each year during Project implementation upon timely submittal WAR eee 
withdrawal request acceptable to the Bank and pursuant to the Dine and Finan\ 
Information Letter. Such withdrawal request shall include evidence; fp form 
acceptable to the Bank of: (a) EEPs incurred, as presented in a opens tatem 

\\ Ss Sie iH 
-9- 

    

   



Expenditures Report; and (b) supporting documentation confirming the Borrower’s 

achievement of the respective DLI, as referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and as 
set forth in the Verification Protocols. The Bank may accept withdrawal requests 

submitted pursuant to the provisions of this section, in respect of any DLI achieved prior 
to the date by which such DLI is set to be achieved. 

Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs B.1(b) and B.2 of this Section, if the Bank 

is not satisfied that any DLI under Category (1) has been achieved by the date by which 

the respective DLI is set to be achieved, as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the 

Bank may at any time, and by notice to the Borrower, decide, in its sole discretion to: 

(a) withhold the unwithdrawn proceeds of the Loan then allocated to said DLI 

until the Bank is satisfied that said DLI has been fully achieved; or 

(b) (1) reallocate all or a portion of the proceeds of the Loan then allocated to 

said DLI to any other DLI; and/or (2) cancel all or a portion of the proceeds 

of the Loan then allocated to said DLI. 

If, at any time, the Bank determines that any portion of the amounts withdrawn by the 

Borrower under Category (1) was made: (a) for ineligible expenditures; or (b) not in 
compliance with the provisions of part B.2 of this Section, the Borrower shall promptly 
refund any such amount to the Bank as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 

The Bank shall cancel such refunded amount. 

The Closing Date is September 30, 2022 (or such other date as the Bank shall establish, 
upon a request from the Borrower, by notice to the Borrower). 

-10- 

 



  
SCHEDULE 3 

Commitment-Linked Amortization Repayment Schedule — Bullet Repayment 

The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on December 1, 2038. 

  

«| 1 

 



SCHEDULE 4 

Disbursement-Linked Indicators* 
  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  
  

  

2018 2019 2020 2021 USS 
DLI 23: MINERD uses DLI 27: MINERD incorporates | DLI 34: At least 10% of 

assessment data to prioritize | information and teachers who enroll in an 

teacher in-service training communications technology ICT-based in-service 

Oe strategies (ICT) into an in-service teacher | training program complete it 

: ; (Value: US$6.0 M) training program (Value: US$6.0 M) 
capacity to recruit 
and train primary Vane: 26.0M 

DLI 28: ISFODOSU prepares DLI 35: ISFODOSU : 
and secondary : oe ale Bo 
hol teachers itself to initiate the accreditation | formally initiates the process 

process by carrying out an auto- | of international accreditation 

evaluation aligned with of its first-cycle teacher 

international standards (Value: | training programs 

US$4.0 M) (Value: US$6.0 M) 
DLI 21: MINERD DLI 24: MINERD produces | DLI 29: MINERD produces and | DLI 36: MINERD produces 

administers a student and delivers school-level delivers school-level reports and delivers school-level 

assessment for the 6th reports with with recommendations from 9th | reports that track progress 

grade recommendations from 6th | grade assessment across the two waves of the 

(Value: US$6.0 M) grade assessment (Value: US$4.75 M) assessment for the first cycle 

: (Value: US$6.0 M) of primary education 

Part 2: Improving (Value: US$5.0 M) 
pada pean DLI 30: MINERD administers a 
student learning in 36.75 M 

: student assessment for the first 
primary and : . 
ls con cycle of primary education for 

the second time (Value: US$5.0 

M) 
DLI 25: MINERD DLI 31: MINERD disseminates 
administers a student results of PISA 2018 

assessment for the 9th grade | (Value: US$4.0 M) 

(Value: US$6.0 M) 

DLI 22: MINERD DLI 26: MINERD publishes | DLI 32: First cohort of public DLI 37: Second cohort of 

competitively appoints at | and distributes new regional | school principals has completed | public school principals has 
least 90% of regional and_| and district operations training using improved completed training using 

district directors manuals, and develops an methods improved methods (Value: 

(Value: US$6.0 M) implementation plan (Value: | (Value: US$4.0 M) US$4.0 M) 

US$6.0 M) 

DLI 33: MINERD develops DLI 38: 30% of school 

targets for student achievement | districts collect school 

at the regional, district, and infrastructure information to 

school levels, and a monitoring | improve disaster risk 

: plan to track progress against management 

ial # japroune targets (Value: US$4.0 M) 
capacity to enhance (Value: US$4.0M) t 

oe | DLI 39: 2,500 School ea 
decentralizing public : 

Management Committees 
school management 

(Juntas de Centro) are fully 

functional (Value: US$5.0 

M)         
  

DLI 40: MINERD uses 

improved methods to train 

district and regional staff in 

i planning to improve student 

oa Hearning.as part of the 

      

  “impleMeptation of district and regionéh ‘Operation manuals (Values US$4.0 M)       
=]2= 

    



  

  2018 2019 2020 2021 USS 
  Estimated 

disbursement 
12M 24M 29.75 M 34M 

          
99.75 M 

  
* The fulfillment of these DLIs will enable the Borrower to achieve the objectives of the Project 

and obtain the disbursement of Loan proceeds in accordance with the pertinent provisions of this 

Agreement. The amount of the Loan allocated to each DLI is based on projected expenses incurred 

by the Borrower with the purpose of achieving these DLIs and documented through Eligible 

Expenditures under the Project. 

  

-13- 

 



10. 

APPENDIX 

Definitions 

“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means, for purposes of paragraph 5 of the Appendix to the 

General Conditions, the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption 

in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 

and revised in January 2011 and as of July 1, 2016. 

“Borrower’s Budget” means the Borrower’s annual budget, approved by the Borrower’s 
Parliament, from time to time. 

“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section III.A of Schedule 2 to this 

Agreement. 

“Customized Statement of Expenditures Report” means any report prepared by the 

Borrower in accordance with the Disbursement and Financial Information Letter and set 

forth in the Project Operations Manual and referred to in Section III.B.2 of Schedule 2 to 

this Agreement on the spending status of the EEPs in relation to the Borrower’s Budget. 

“Disbursement-Linked Indicator” or “DLI’ means an indicator, set forth in Schedule 4 of 

this Agreement, the achievement of which is a condition for disbursement of Loan 
Proceeds, pursuant to Section III.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

“Education Law” means the Borrower’s Law 66-97, dated April 9, 1997, as amended to 

the date of this Agreement. 

“Eligible Expenditure Programs” or “EEPs” means a set of defined expenditures within the 

Borrower’s Budget for financing of: (a) remuneration of staff of ISFODOSU, 
INAFOCAM, IDEICE and MINERD; (b) fuel and lubricants for ISFODOSU’s vehicles 
used in respect of the Project; and (c) Transfers to SMCs. 

“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 

General Conditions for IBRD Financing, Investment Project Financing”, dated July 14, 

2017. 

“IDEICE” means Jnstituto Dominicano de Evaluacion e Investigacion de la Calidad 

Educativa, the Dominican Institute of Research and Evaluation, established as a 

decentralized entity of MINERD, pursuant to Order 03-2008 of the National Education 

Council and pursuant to Article 78 of the Education Law, or any successor thereto 

satisfactory to the Bank. 

“INAFOCAM” means Jnstituto Nacional de Formacion y Capa n del Magisterio, 

the National Institute of Education and Training of Teachers, = fom 

entity of MINERD, pursuant to Article 129 of the Educatiog Law, or any suléesssor thereto 
satisfactory to the Bank. les 

-14- 

 



11. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

15; 

16. 

17. 

18. 

19. 

20. 

21; 

22. 

“INAIPI” means Jnstituto Nacional de Atencion Integral a la Primera Infancia, the 

National Institute of Comprehensive Care for Early Childhood, established as a 

decentralized entity of MINERD, pursuant to Article 7 of the Borrower’s Decree 102-13, 
dated April 12, 2013, or any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank. 

“ISFODOSU” means Jnstituto de Formacién Docente Salomé Urefia, the Borrower’s 

Salomé Urefia Teacher Training Institute, established as a decentralized entity of 

MINERD, pursuant to Decree 427-00, dated August 15, 2000, and Decree 571-03, dated 
June 16, 2003, or any successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank. 

“Ministry of Finance” means Ministerio de Hacienda, the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance. 

“MINERD” means Ministerio de Educacion, the Borrower’s Ministry of Education, or any 
successor thereto satisfactory to the Bank. 

“National Education Pact” means the Pacto Nacional Para la Reforma Educativa en la 

Republica Dominicana (2014-2030), dated April 1, 2014, set forth pursuant to the 

Borrower’s National Development Strategy 2030 (Law 1-12), and Decree 228-13, a 
document reflecting a broad-based consensus among the Borrower’s key stakeholders, and 

aimed at transforming the education system in the Borrower’s territory. 

“OCI” means Oficina de Cooperacién Internacional, the MINERD’s International 

Cooperation Office, responsible for coordinating and overseeing the Borrower’s 

internationally funded projects in the education sector, or any successor thereto satisfactory 

to the Bank. 

“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for the Original Project between the 

Borrower and the Bank, dated October 8, 2015, as amended as of the Signature Date (Loan 

No. 8540-DO). 

“Original Project” means the project described in Schedule 1 to the Original Loan 

Agreement. 

“Procurement Regulations” means, for purposes of paragraph 85 of the Appendix to the 
General Conditions, the “World Bank Procurement Regulations for IPF Borrowers”, dated 

July 2016, revised November 2017 and August 2018. 

“Project Operations Manual” or “POM” means the manual dated October 24, 2018, 

acceptable to the Bank and referred in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting 

forth the operational and administrative responsibilities, procedures and rules for the 

implementation of the Project. 

“Project Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in section I.A.2 of Schedule 

2 to this Agreement, tasked with overall guidance and coordination oy, roject. is Ag g eS BE Fes “ i 

“Public Early Childhood Development Centers” means Centros, he tencion integ SS Lpara 

la Primera Infancia (Estancias Infantiles), the Borrower’s; Genterssés Established? Hh 

functioning under the QEC Program. 1 é 

-15- \ 

  



23. 

24. 

25. 

26. 

27. 

28. 

“QEC Program” means Sistema Nacional de Proteccién a la Primera Infancia, also 

referred to as Quisqueya Empieza Contigo, the Borrower’s program for the provision of 

early childhood development services as set forth in the Borrower’s Decree 102-13, dated 
April 12, 2013, or a successor program satisfactory to the Bank. 

“School Management Committees” or “SMCs” means Juntas de Centro, as set forth in 

Article 93 of the Borrower’s Education Law. 

“Signature Date” means the later of the two dates on which the Borrower and the Bank 
signed this Agreement and such definition applies to all references to “the date of the Loan 

Agreement” in the General Conditions. 

“SMCs Operations Manual” means the Borrower’s Manual de Operacion de Juntas 

Escolares and the Jnstructivo para el Manejo de Fondos Transferidos a las Juntas 
Regionales, de Distrito y Centro Educativo, satisfactory to the Bank, and incorporated in 

the Project Operations Manual. 

“Transfers to SMCs” means periodic transfers of budgetary funds by MINERD to the 

account of an SMC for the purposes of supporting the development of schools, managing 

of human, physical, and financial resources, and promoting community participation in 

school activities and decisions, all in accordance with the SMCs Operations Manual, and 

the Borrower’s applicable laws and regulations. 

“Verification Protocols” means the set of protocols setting forth the actions and 
mechanisms required for verification of DLIs, agreed with the Bank and included in the 

Project Operations Manual, and referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 

as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank. 

  

-16-